Let's look at an example of deploying two different versions of the API
behind a load balancer with rules that check for a custom Accept‑version
header, then route the calls based on the value of that header. We'll also
add a default with a helpful error message in case clients forget to include
the version header with their call.
Let's modify our v1 project from using the URI for our
version to using a custom header.
We won't need the basePath property anymore, so we'll get rid of that.
Our example service will be the same,
but let's change the message a little bit to make it clear that this is
version 1. The Employee entity is going to be the same,
and the artifact will be 1.0. Let's go ahead and build the executable
JAR so we can deploy this to the server. With a successful build, we
can copy the 1.0 version up to the server.
I've got the JAR on the server, and we'll fire it up.
Next, let's switch to the branch with the v2 version. Here
we're configured to build a 2.0 artifact,
the employee service is modified to include a required department
attributes, the schedule service is the same, we'll just add some
clarification that this is the v2 schedule, and we'll no longer
need the basePath property.
Let's go ahead and build this.
The build is a success, so we'll copy the 2.0 JAR up to the server.
Now we have the 2.0 version copied to the service, so we'll fire it up.
Let's take a look at the rules for the load balancer.
It's listening on port 80, then there are two different rules.
If the Accept‑version header is v1, then it will
forward to our application v1 deployment.
If the header Accept‑version is v2,
then it will forward to our application v2 deployment.
Let's hit these endpoints and see how it works.
We'll start with the v1 schedule.
Notice how there is no versioning in the URI, but we are including the
Accept‑version header with a v1 value, and we see the expected value that our
v1 schedule is Monday through Friday, 9‑9. Let's hit the employees endpoint.
Currently, 0 employees because, again, we're using an in‑memory database and
we've just started the application.
Let's add an employee named craig and title developer,
and we'll double check the value.
We can see that one element was returned, and it's craig, developer.
Now let's hit the v2 service. Again, notice the same URL, there's nothing
different about the URL, but now the except version header is v2,
and we get our expected value that the v2 schedule is Monday through Wednesday,
6‑6.
Let's check v2 employees, 0 elements, nothing there yet, so let's add an
employee. We'll do william, developer, and recall that v2 has a required
attribute of department, so we'll say research.
The call was successful, and when we get employees,
we can see one element, and it's william, developer, in research.
What happens if we try to hit the employees endpoint
without including the custom header?
Let's try it and see.
Notice how we get a 404 Not Found.
We can also see the custom message that we've added in the load balancer.
Be sure to include Accept‑version header with the version you want
to use. Current supported versions are v1 and v2.
That error message was simply the default action on the load balancer.
We can take a look at this and see that if the request was
not routed by any of the previous rules,
which we're looking for the Accept‑version header and the value of v1 or v2,
then we're returning a fixed response.
In this case,
it's a 404 code with some information to help the user remember that they
need to include the custom header called Accept‑version,
and that the current versions supported are v1 and v2.
This is a great way to leverage your load balancer to remind
your users that versioning for your Spring Data REST API is
being implemented with custom headers,
and those custom headers must be included for the calls to be routed correctly.
Congratulations! You've seen how to add a custom header to
version a service and some limitations of this approach in
your Spring Data REST service.
We then covered how to use your router or proxy server
to read the custom version headers,
allowing you to use this approach with your Spring Data REST
service without sacrificing the convenience of letting Spring
manage the entities for you. I hope you have found this valuable, and thank you for watching.